year2020/day5/README.md, before:

# Advent of Code 2020 - Day 5

Solution for this day: [year2020day5.py](year2020day5.py)

My input for this day: [input.txt](input.txt)

## \--- Day 5: Binary Boarding ---

You board your plane only to discover a new problem: you dropped your boarding
pass! You aren't sure which seat is yours, and all of the flight attendants
are busy with the flood of people that suddenly made it through passport
control.

You write a quick program to use your phone's camera to scan all of the nearby
boarding passes (your puzzle input); perhaps you can find your seat through
process of elimination.

Instead of [zones or groups](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAHbLRjF0vo),
this airline uses _binary space partitioning_ to seat people. A seat might be
specified like `FBFBBFFRLR`, where `F` means "front", `B` means "back", `L`
means "left", and `R` means "right".

The first 7 characters will either be `F` or `B`; these specify exactly one of
the _128 rows_ on the plane (numbered `0` through `127`). Each letter tells
you which half of a region the given seat is in. Start with the whole list of
rows; the first letter indicates whether the seat is in the _front_ (`0`
through `63`) or the _back_ (`64` through `127`). The next letter indicates
which half of that region the seat is in, and so on until you're left with
exactly one row.

For example, consider just the first seven characters of `FBFBBFFRLR`:

  * Start by considering the whole range, rows `0` through `127`.
  * `F` means to take the _lower half_ , keeping rows `0` through `63`.
  * `B` means to take the _upper half_ , keeping rows `32` through `63`.
  * `F` means to take the _lower half_ , keeping rows `32` through `47`.
  * `B` means to take the _upper half_ , keeping rows `40` through `47`.
  * `B` keeps rows `44` through `47`.
  * `F` keeps rows `44` through `45`.
  * The final `F` keeps the lower of the two, _row`44`_.

The last three characters will be either `L` or `R`; these specify exactly one
of the _8 columns_ of seats on the plane (numbered `0` through `7`). The same
process as above proceeds again, this time with only three steps. `L` means to
keep the _lower half_ , while `R` means to keep the _upper half_.

For example, consider just the last 3 characters of `FBFBBFFRLR`:

  * Start by considering the whole range, columns `0` through `7`.
  * `R` means to take the _upper half_ , keeping columns `4` through `7`.
  * `L` means to take the _lower half_ , keeping columns `4` through `5`.
  * The final `R` keeps the upper of the two, _column`5`_.

So, decoding `FBFBBFFRLR` reveals that it is the seat at _row`44`, column
`5`_.

Every seat also has a unique _seat ID_ : multiply the row by 8, then add the
column. In this example, the seat has ID `44 * 8 + 5 = _357_`.

Here are some other boarding passes:

  * `BFFFBBFRRR`: row `70`, column `7`, seat ID `567`.
  * `FFFBBBFRRR`: row `14`, column `7`, seat ID `119`.
  * `BBFFBBFRLL`: row `102`, column `4`, seat ID `820`.

As a sanity check, look through your list of boarding passes. _What is the
highest seat ID on a boarding pass?_



Source: [https://adventofcode.com/2020/day/5](https://adventofcode.com/2020/day/5)

Commit message:

update readmes with part two of the task

year2020/day5/README.md, after:

# Advent of Code 2020 - Day 5

Solution for this day: [year2020day5.py](year2020day5.py)

My input for this day: [input.txt](input.txt)

## \--- Day 5: Binary Boarding ---

You board your plane only to discover a new problem: you dropped your boarding
pass! You aren't sure which seat is yours, and all of the flight attendants
are busy with the flood of people that suddenly made it through passport
control.

You write a quick program to use your phone's camera to scan all of the nearby
boarding passes (your puzzle input); perhaps you can find your seat through
process of elimination.

Instead of [zones or groups](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oAHbLRjF0vo),
this airline uses _binary space partitioning_ to seat people. A seat might be
specified like `FBFBBFFRLR`, where `F` means "front", `B` means "back", `L`
means "left", and `R` means "right".

The first 7 characters will either be `F` or `B`; these specify exactly one of
the _128 rows_ on the plane (numbered `0` through `127`). Each letter tells
you which half of a region the given seat is in. Start with the whole list of
rows; the first letter indicates whether the seat is in the _front_ (`0`
through `63`) or the _back_ (`64` through `127`). The next letter indicates
which half of that region the seat is in, and so on until you're left with
exactly one row.

For example, consider just the first seven characters of `FBFBBFFRLR`:

  * Start by considering the whole range, rows `0` through `127`.
  * `F` means to take the _lower half_ , keeping rows `0` through `63`.
  * `B` means to take the _upper half_ , keeping rows `32` through `63`.
  * `F` means to take the _lower half_ , keeping rows `32` through `47`.
  * `B` means to take the _upper half_ , keeping rows `40` through `47`.
  * `B` keeps rows `44` through `47`.
  * `F` keeps rows `44` through `45`.
  * The final `F` keeps the lower of the two, _row`44`_.

The last three characters will be either `L` or `R`; these specify exactly one
of the _8 columns_ of seats on the plane (numbered `0` through `7`). The same
process as above proceeds again, this time with only three steps. `L` means to
keep the _lower half_ , while `R` means to keep the _upper half_.

For example, consider just the last 3 characters of `FBFBBFFRLR`:

  * Start by considering the whole range, columns `0` through `7`.
  * `R` means to take the _upper half_ , keeping columns `4` through `7`.
  * `L` means to take the _lower half_ , keeping columns `4` through `5`.
  * The final `R` keeps the upper of the two, _column`5`_.

So, decoding `FBFBBFFRLR` reveals that it is the seat at _row`44`, column
`5`_.

Every seat also has a unique _seat ID_ : multiply the row by 8, then add the
column. In this example, the seat has ID `44 * 8 + 5 = _357_`.

Here are some other boarding passes:

  * `BFFFBBFRRR`: row `70`, column `7`, seat ID `567`.
  * `FFFBBBFRRR`: row `14`, column `7`, seat ID `119`.
  * `BBFFBBFRLL`: row `102`, column `4`, seat ID `820`.

As a sanity check, look through your list of boarding passes. _What is the
highest seat ID on a boarding pass?_

## \--- Part Two ---

 _Ding!_ The "fasten seat belt" signs have turned on. Time to find your seat.

It's a completely full flight, so your seat should be the only missing
boarding pass in your list. However, there's a catch: some of the seats at the
very front and back of the plane don't exist on this aircraft, so they'll be
missing from your list as well.

Your seat wasn't at the very front or back, though; the seats with IDs +1 and
-1 from yours will be in your list.

_What is the ID of your seat?_



Source: [https://adventofcode.com/2020/day/5](https://adventofcode.com/2020/day/5)
