year2020/day1/README.md, before:

# Advent of Code 2020 - Day 1

Solution for this day: [year2020day1.py](year2020day1.py)

My input for this day: [input.txt](input.txt)

## \--- Day 1: Report Repair ---

After saving Christmas [five years in a row](/events), you've decided to take
a vacation at a nice resort on a tropical island. Surely, Christmas will go on
without you.

The tropical island has its own currency and is entirely cash-only. The gold
coins used there have a little picture of a starfish; the locals just call
them _stars_. None of the currency exchanges seem to have heard of them, but
somehow, you'll need to find fifty of these coins by the time you arrive so
you can pay the deposit on your room.

To save your vacation, you need to get all _fifty stars_ by December 25th.

Collect stars by solving puzzles. Two puzzles will be made available on each
day in the Advent calendar; the second puzzle is unlocked when you complete
the first. Each puzzle grants _one star_. Good luck!

Before you leave, the Elves in accounting just need you to fix your _expense
report_ (your puzzle input); apparently, something isn't quite adding up.

Specifically, they need you to _find the two entries that sum to`2020`_ and
then multiply those two numbers together.

For example, suppose your expense report contained the following:

    
    
    1721
    979
    366
    299
    675
    1456
    

In this list, the two entries that sum to `2020` are `1721` and `299`.
Multiplying them together produces `1721 * 299 = 514579`, so the correct
answer is `_514579_`.

Of course, your expense report is much larger. _Find the two entries that sum
to`2020`; what do you get if you multiply them together?_



Source: [https://adventofcode.com/2020/day/1](https://adventofcode.com/2020/day/1)

Commit message:

update readmes with part two of the task

year2020/day1/README.md, after:

# Advent of Code 2020 - Day 1

Solution for this day: [year2020day1.py](year2020day1.py)

My input for this day: [input.txt](input.txt)

## \--- Day 1: Report Repair ---

After saving Christmas [five years in a row](/events), you've decided to take
a vacation at a nice resort on a tropical island. Surely, Christmas will go on
without you.

The tropical island has its own currency and is entirely cash-only. The gold
coins used there have a little picture of a starfish; the locals just call
them _stars_. None of the currency exchanges seem to have heard of them, but
somehow, you'll need to find fifty of these coins by the time you arrive so
you can pay the deposit on your room.

To save your vacation, you need to get all _fifty stars_ by December 25th.

Collect stars by solving puzzles. Two puzzles will be made available on each
day in the Advent calendar; the second puzzle is unlocked when you complete
the first. Each puzzle grants _one star_. Good luck!

Before you leave, the Elves in accounting just need you to fix your _expense
report_ (your puzzle input); apparently, something isn't quite adding up.

Specifically, they need you to _find the two entries that sum to`2020`_ and
then multiply those two numbers together.

For example, suppose your expense report contained the following:

    
    
    1721
    979
    366
    299
    675
    1456
    

In this list, the two entries that sum to `2020` are `1721` and `299`.
Multiplying them together produces `1721 * 299 = 514579`, so the correct
answer is `_514579_`.

Of course, your expense report is much larger. _Find the two entries that sum
to`2020`; what do you get if you multiply them together?_

## \--- Part Two ---

The Elves in accounting are thankful for your help; one of them even offers
you a starfish coin they had left over from a past vacation. They offer you a
second one if you can find _three_ numbers in your expense report that meet
the same criteria.

Using the above example again, the three entries that sum to `2020` are `979`,
`366`, and `675`. Multiplying them together produces the answer,
`_241861950_`.

In your expense report, _what is the product of the three entries that sum
to`2020`?_



Source: [https://adventofcode.com/2020/day/1](https://adventofcode.com/2020/day/1)
