year2020/day3/README.md, before:

# Advent of Code 2020 - Day 3

Solution for this day: [year2020day3.py](year2020day3.py)

My input for this day: [input.txt](input.txt)

## \--- Day 3: Toboggan Trajectory ---

With the toboggan login problems resolved, you set off toward the airport.
While travel by toboggan might be easy, it's certainly not safe: there's very
minimal steering and the area is covered in trees. You'll need to see which
angles will take you near the fewest trees.

Due to the local geology, trees in this area only grow on exact integer
coordinates in a grid. You make a map (your puzzle input) of the open squares
(`.`) and trees (`#`) you can see. For example:

    
    
    ..##.......
    #...#...#..
    .#....#..#.
    ..#.#...#.#
    .#...##..#.
    ..#.##.....
    .#.#.#....#
    .#........#
    #.##...#...
    #...##....#
    .#..#...#.#
    

These aren't the only trees, though; due to something you read about once
involving arboreal genetics and biome stability, the same pattern repeats to
the right many times:

    
    
    _..##......._..##.........##.........##.........##.........##.......  --->
    _#...#...#.._ #...#...#..#...#...#..#...#...#..#...#...#..#...#...#..
    _.#....#..#._.#....#..#..#....#..#..#....#..#..#....#..#..#....#..#.
    _..#.#...#.#_..#.#...#.#..#.#...#.#..#.#...#.#..#.#...#.#..#.#...#.#
    _.#...##..#._.#...##..#..#...##..#..#...##..#..#...##..#..#...##..#.
    _..#.##....._..#.##.......#.##.......#.##.......#.##.......#.##.....  --->
    _.#.#.#....#_.#.#.#....#.#.#.#....#.#.#.#....#.#.#.#....#.#.#.#....#
    _.#........#_.#........#.#........#.#........#.#........#.#........#
    _#.##...#..._ #.##...#...#.##...#...#.##...#...#.##...#...#.##...#...
    _#...##....#_ #...##....##...##....##...##....##...##....##...##....#
    _.#..#...#.#_.#..#...#.#.#..#...#.#.#..#...#.#.#..#...#.#.#..#...#.#  --->
    

You start on the open square (`.`) in the top-left corner and need to reach
the bottom (below the bottom-most row on your map).

The toboggan can only follow a few specific slopes (you opted for a cheaper
model that prefers rational numbers); start by _counting all the trees_ you
would encounter for the slope _right 3, down 1_ :

From your starting position at the top-left, check the position that is right
3 and down 1. Then, check the position that is right 3 and down 1 from there,
and so on until you go past the bottom of the map.

The locations you'd check in the above example are marked here with `_O_`
where there was an open square and `_X_` where there was a tree:

    
    
    ..##.........##.........##.........##.........##.........##.......  --->
    #.. _O_ #...#..#...#...#..#...#...#..#...#...#..#...#...#..#...#...#..
    .#.... _X_..#..#....#..#..#....#..#..#....#..#..#....#..#..#....#..#.
    ..#.#...# _O_ #..#.#...#.#..#.#...#.#..#.#...#.#..#.#...#.#..#.#...#.#
    .#...##..#.. _X_...##..#..#...##..#..#...##..#..#...##..#..#...##..#.
    ..#.##.......#. _X_ #.......#.##.......#.##.......#.##.......#.##.....  --->
    .#.#.#....#.#.#.#. _O_..#.#.#.#....#.#.#.#....#.#.#.#....#.#.#.#....#
    .#........#.#........ _X_.#........#.#........#.#........#.#........#
    #.##...#...#.##...#...#. _X_ #...#...#.##...#...#.##...#...#.##...#...
    #...##....##...##....##...# _X_....##...##....##...##....##...##....#
    .#..#...#.#.#..#...#.#.#..#... _X_.#.#..#...#.#.#..#...#.#.#..#...#.#  --->
    

In this example, traversing the map using this slope would cause you to
encounter `_7_` trees.

Starting at the top-left corner of your map and following a slope of right 3
and down 1, _how many trees would you encounter?_



Source: [https://adventofcode.com/2020/day/3](https://adventofcode.com/2020/day/3)

Commit message:

update readmes with part two of the task

year2020/day3/README.md, after:

# Advent of Code 2020 - Day 3

Solution for this day: [year2020day3.py](year2020day3.py)

My input for this day: [input.txt](input.txt)

## \--- Day 3: Toboggan Trajectory ---

With the toboggan login problems resolved, you set off toward the airport.
While travel by toboggan might be easy, it's certainly not safe: there's very
minimal steering and the area is covered in trees. You'll need to see which
angles will take you near the fewest trees.

Due to the local geology, trees in this area only grow on exact integer
coordinates in a grid. You make a map (your puzzle input) of the open squares
(`.`) and trees (`#`) you can see. For example:

    
    
    ..##.......
    #...#...#..
    .#....#..#.
    ..#.#...#.#
    .#...##..#.
    ..#.##.....
    .#.#.#....#
    .#........#
    #.##...#...
    #...##....#
    .#..#...#.#
    

These aren't the only trees, though; due to something you read about once
involving arboreal genetics and biome stability, the same pattern repeats to
the right many times:

    
    
    _..##......._..##.........##.........##.........##.........##.......  --->
    _#...#...#.._ #...#...#..#...#...#..#...#...#..#...#...#..#...#...#..
    _.#....#..#._.#....#..#..#....#..#..#....#..#..#....#..#..#....#..#.
    _..#.#...#.#_..#.#...#.#..#.#...#.#..#.#...#.#..#.#...#.#..#.#...#.#
    _.#...##..#._.#...##..#..#...##..#..#...##..#..#...##..#..#...##..#.
    _..#.##....._..#.##.......#.##.......#.##.......#.##.......#.##.....  --->
    _.#.#.#....#_.#.#.#....#.#.#.#....#.#.#.#....#.#.#.#....#.#.#.#....#
    _.#........#_.#........#.#........#.#........#.#........#.#........#
    _#.##...#..._ #.##...#...#.##...#...#.##...#...#.##...#...#.##...#...
    _#...##....#_ #...##....##...##....##...##....##...##....##...##....#
    _.#..#...#.#_.#..#...#.#.#..#...#.#.#..#...#.#.#..#...#.#.#..#...#.#  --->
    

You start on the open square (`.`) in the top-left corner and need to reach
the bottom (below the bottom-most row on your map).

The toboggan can only follow a few specific slopes (you opted for a cheaper
model that prefers rational numbers); start by _counting all the trees_ you
would encounter for the slope _right 3, down 1_ :

From your starting position at the top-left, check the position that is right
3 and down 1. Then, check the position that is right 3 and down 1 from there,
and so on until you go past the bottom of the map.

The locations you'd check in the above example are marked here with `_O_`
where there was an open square and `_X_` where there was a tree:

    
    
    ..##.........##.........##.........##.........##.........##.......  --->
    #.. _O_ #...#..#...#...#..#...#...#..#...#...#..#...#...#..#...#...#..
    .#.... _X_..#..#....#..#..#....#..#..#....#..#..#....#..#..#....#..#.
    ..#.#...# _O_ #..#.#...#.#..#.#...#.#..#.#...#.#..#.#...#.#..#.#...#.#
    .#...##..#.. _X_...##..#..#...##..#..#...##..#..#...##..#..#...##..#.
    ..#.##.......#. _X_ #.......#.##.......#.##.......#.##.......#.##.....  --->
    .#.#.#....#.#.#.#. _O_..#.#.#.#....#.#.#.#....#.#.#.#....#.#.#.#....#
    .#........#.#........ _X_.#........#.#........#.#........#.#........#
    #.##...#...#.##...#...#. _X_ #...#...#.##...#...#.##...#...#.##...#...
    #...##....##...##....##...# _X_....##...##....##...##....##...##....#
    .#..#...#.#.#..#...#.#.#..#... _X_.#.#..#...#.#.#..#...#.#.#..#...#.#  --->
    

In this example, traversing the map using this slope would cause you to
encounter `_7_` trees.

Starting at the top-left corner of your map and following a slope of right 3
and down 1, _how many trees would you encounter?_

## \--- Part Two ---

Time to check the rest of the slopes - you need to minimize the probability of
a sudden arboreal stop, after all.

Determine the number of trees you would encounter if, for each of the
following slopes, you start at the top-left corner and traverse the map all
the way to the bottom:

  * Right 1, down 1.
  * Right 3, down 1. (This is the slope you already checked.)
  * Right 5, down 1.
  * Right 7, down 1.
  * Right 1, down 2.

In the above example, these slopes would find `2`, `7`, `3`, `4`, and `2`
tree(s) respectively; multiplied together, these produce the answer `_336_`.

_What do you get if you multiply together the number of trees encountered on
each of the listed slopes?_



Source: [https://adventofcode.com/2020/day/3](https://adventofcode.com/2020/day/3)
